First ten chapters of the Scala 3 Overview documentation (#2)
scalacenter/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/overview/scala-features.md

I think one of the next big developments will be the refinement of type systems to describe ever more precise properties of programs.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scala_(programming_language)#Expressive_type_system
- Expressive type system
  - Classes and abstract types as object members
  - Structural types
  - Path-dependent types
  - Compound types
  - Explicitly typed self references
  - Generic classes
  - Polymorphic methods
  - Upper and lower type bounds
  - Variance (covariance and contravariance)
  - Annotation
  - Views
  - Type inference
  - “Type enrichment” (implicits)
  - Statically typed
  - ADTs

- Possible resources
    - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scala_(programming_language)#Expressive_type_system
    - https://docs.scala-lang.org/tour/tour-of-scala.html
    - https://www.artima.com/scalazine/articles/scalas_type_system.html
    - https://heather.miller.am/blog/types-in-scala.html

- DOT, Soundness
    - http://dotty.epfl.ch/blog/2016/02/17/scaling-dot-soundness
    - https://www.scala-lang.org/blog/2016/02/03/essence-of-scala.html
-->

### It’s a pure functional programming language

Scala is a functional programming (FP) language, meaning:

> - Functions are variables, and can be passed around like any other variable

Reviewer: functions are "values" not variables :) For example `x => x + 1` is not a variable.

- Higher-order functions are directly supported
- Lambdas are built in

> - Everything in Scala is an expression that returns a value

Reviewer: Technically speaking "everything" is not true. For example `class A` is not an expression. This is only the case for statements.

- Syntactically it’s easy to use immutable variables, and their use is encouraged
- It has a wealth of immutable collections classes in the standard library
- Those collections classes come with dozens of functional methods: they don’t mutate the collection, but instead return an updated copy of the data

### It’s a pure object-oriented programming language

> Scala is a _pure_ object-oriented programming (OOP) language. Every variable is an object, and every “operator” is a method.

Reviewer: Again, I wouldn't speak of "variables" here

In Scala, all types inherit from a top-level class `Any`, whose immediate children are `AnyVal` (_value types_, such as `Int` and `Boolean`) and `AnyRef` (_reference types_, as in Java). This means that the Java distinction between primitive types and boxed types (e.g. `int` vs. `Integer`) isn’t present in Scala. Boxing and unboxing is completely transparent to the user.

<!-- TODO: add the “hierarchy” image here -->

### Scala supports the fusion of FP and OOP

<!-- from a slide here: https://twitter.com/alexelcu/status/996408359514525696 -->

The essence of Scala is the fusion of functional programming and object-oriented programming in a typed settings:

- Functions for the logic
- Objects for the modularity

As [Martin Odersky has stated](https://jaxenter.com/current-state-scala-odersky-interview-129495.html), “Scala was designed to show that a fusion of functional and object-oriented programming is possible and practical.”

For more details on this philosophy, see the TODO section in the Reference documentation.

### Contextual abstractions provide a clear way to implement term inference

> Following Haskell, Scala was the second popular language to have some form of _implicits_. In Scala 3 these concepts have been completely re-thought and more clearly implemented.

Reviewer: Don't say "more clearly" this is offensive to Haskell developers. Maybe "integrated into the language in a conceptually sound way".

2. [Lagom](https://www.lagomframework.com) is a microservices framework that helps you decompose your legacy monolith and build, test, and deploy entire systems of reactive microservices
3. [Apache Spark](https://spark.apache.org) is a unified analytics engine for big data processing, with built-in modules for streaming, SQL, machine learning and graph processing

The [Awesome Scala list](https://github.com/lauris/awesome-scala) shows dozens of additional open source tools that developers have created to build Scala applications.

In addition to server-side programming, [Scala.js](https://www.scala-js.org) is a strongly-typed replacement for writing JavaScript, with open source third-party libraries that include tools to integrate with Facebook’s React library, jQuery, and more.

<!--
The Lower-Level Features section is like the second part of an elevator pitch. Assuming you told someone about the previous high-level features and then they say, “Tell me more,” this is what you might tell them.
-->
## 2) Lower-level language features

> Where the previous section covered high-level features of Scala 3, it’s interesting to note that at a high level you can make the same statements about both Scala 2 and Scala 3. A decade ago Scala started with a strong foundation of desirable features, and as you’ll see in this section, those benefits have been improved with Scala 3.

Reviewer: Is it necessary to talk about Scala 2 vs 3 here?

At a “sea level” view of the details — i.e., the language features programmers use everyday — Scala 3 has significant advantages over Scala 2:

- The ability to create algebraic data types (ADTs) more concisely with enums
- An even more concise and readable syntax:
    - The “quiet” control structure syntax is easier to read
    - Optional braces
        - Fewer symbols in the code creates less visual noise, making it easier to read
    - The `new` keyword is generally no longer needed when creating class instances
    - The formality of package objects have been dropped in favor of simpler “top level” definitions
- A clearer grammar:

>     - Multiple different uses of the `implicit` keyword have been removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Multiple overloaded uses of the `implicit` keyword have been removed
```

    - Those uses are replaced by more obvious keywords like `given`, `using`, and `extension`, focusing on intent over mechanism
    - Extension methods replace implicit classes with a clearer and simpler mechanism
    - The addition of the `open` modifier for classes makes the developer intentionally declare that a class is open for modification, thereby limiting ad-hoc extensions to a code base
    - Multiversal equality rules out nonsensical comparisons with `==` and `!=` (i.e., attempting to compare a `Person` to a `Planet`)
    - Macros are implemented much more easily

>     - TODO: Benefits of Union and intersection types (I need help here)

Reviewer: Maybe?
```suggestion
    - Union and intersection offer a flexible way to model types
```

Author: Done (thanks!)
